with a murder rate of nine point one
percent what is sometimes said to be the
most dangerous desk job in the world the
answer at the end of the show welcome
back to lateral we are in the second
round and both of our teams won their
first games which means one of them is
going straight through to the grand
final and it's a choice between welcome
back team vive ur
team viber la Vida yes would you
introduce yourselves hi I'm Simon Clark
and I just finished my PhD in
atmospheric physics
I am Paige and I am doing my PhD in
evolutionary biology now it was really
close in the first game it was down to
the wire any tactics anything you've
learned from that I think if I sit on my
hand I also kind of fix did you're very
good but yeah you are playing against
team off-peak only I'm Vicki I work in
museum education but I also make videos
about raehyun I'm Jeff hello I make
those videos about training with Vicki
traveling to all the stations in the
country now you had about 15 17 seconds
left on your clock at the end last one
it came down to you knowing wvt yeah
yeah I was like if this is wrong then I
I knew that we were out so I just went
for it and I was very relieved yes
alright well best of luck to both teams
we start as ever with round one
well one is deep thought there are six
lateral thinking questions on the buzzer
sixty seconds for each question and the
earlier you buzz the more points you get
I'll read out clues if you don't know it
as time goes on but beware if you buzz
in wrongly it will go over to the other
team to see if they can get it are we
all ready yes all right first question
goes to you during the Victorian era
why did hard up homeowners occasionally
climb onto their roof with several live
geese but they were a bit weird I wonder
if a goose lands on your property
do you now own the goose so that implies
that you're going up with the geese or
do the were the geese there when they
arrived I know I do there's not much
reason to do this today
what Sonny did a gift that isn't used
very much these days he's fat goose
feathers it was cheaper than using
children oh you're absolutely right to
sweep the chimney for two points you are
off the mark which means team off-peak
next questions for you there are over 30
million pairs of these in the UK half a
black and white the others are black and
yellow some are worth tens of thousands
of pounds even though the stolen
occasionally they can be replaced for
about 20 pounds what are they I think
it's a road sign cat's eyes okay so I
was thinking fire hydrant signs the H
they're black and yellow aren't they
it's something it's something transport
e in there's a sign in place road signs
or transport sign or a street sign
the terminals sometimes misuse these
sorry criminals sometimes misuse these
what are criminals they do they woke up
in a high vis and you can get rid of
anything no but there wouldn't be worth
tens of thousands of pounds these are a
front and back pair it's clothing it's
some kind of clothing it's some kind of
it's a clothing that is a disguise it's
Lisa with fire hydrants the black parts
are letters and numbers I don't know
but in in we may as always take a guess
it's some form of clothing running out
I'm do it this is gonna be fun some form
of clothing that's worn by a government
council official and the criminals are
trying to pose as these people and then
yeah 30 million pairs of those in the UK
no I'm just a pastor so if you can
answer immediately yes they are their
vehicle license plates some of them a
prestige license plates might be a one
or personalised names or something like
that wasn't that wasn't a train question
we have more tranquil trains in your
downfall so that's one point to you and
the next questions yours as well an
artist spends most of the day sketching
in a different room to her subjects the
artist is not famous and the picture is
worthless even some of the faces are
wrong nevertheless the client gratefully
shows the artwork to thousands of people
soon after how so
what was that sorry transy oh should we
wait for another nine only the gun hey
one need a fur for four points
my friend Zack artist could you clarify
what you mean by that one who does the
kind of like that if it when you've got
a witness comes in and you've got to
draw the picture of what they look like
so you can say we are looking for this
criminal that is close enough I have
court artists on my card but you're
absolutely right that all so much as an
e-fit artist so yes I will give you the
four points like a congratulation ice
team off-peak let's see if we can get
you on the board with this question a
lady and a cowboy lie next to a bullet a
dime and a hawk as a result someone is
delighted but doesn't show it what are
they doing okay a lady in a cowboy I
next to a bullet a dime and a hook
someone is delighted but someone doesn't
show it
someone is delighted does it like a song
the hook represents a letter the hook
represents a letter like a pound no no
no idea what would a hook like what the
dime represents a number I literally
have no idea is it a song lyric is it is
it like is it I think stead of currency
okay like like a dollar sign and a
number and ladies don't know what when
would you want to hide your emotions to
others when you're lying bluffing
playing poker that's a card thing it's a
money thing your card he comes out
time.take yes
I can't just say money thing or card
thing but it's to do with money or cards
I need an answer let's say when you're
what are they doing they're playing
they're playing they're gambling I'll
take that the playing poker yes right
one point the ladies are queen the
cowboy is the king the bullets and ace
the dime is a ten and the hook is the
letter J for Jackie so last two
questions on the buzzers for both teams
if you're ready during the American
Civil War it was common for federal
troops to carry out illegal liquor
trafficking by ferrying peddlers who hid
bottles of whiskey about their person
and so which word was born
it was Olivia Sunshine's
be like smoking by betangel the same
trick wouldn't work with modern clothing
this is now a general term for smuggling
or fakery
[Music]
lets me think something doesn't have to
be a clay warehouse was one name wasn't
one there
the bottles were hidden in their
Footwear
bootlegging yes for one point you're
absolutely right
one point to team a peak last question
in this round Wow the extent of the UK's
territorial waters until 1968 and the
land boundaries of the Gambia which on
the screen in front of you were
originally decided by what practical
distance
it's competing like the distance that a
horse could travel without
The Gambia border follows a river
water shown if they hurry up during
those straight lines ships sailed down
that river for two points how far could
you see a ship from the river no it's
not what I've got so the rest of the
question goes over to team off-peak you
could get cuz if the river gets narrow
narrow narrow then you can't actually
get a ship to ship can it have to do
with its supplies what markers could
ships use
market but I'm gonna say boys but
there's some kind of lags oh it's the
distance that you can see like a
semaphore signal signal from them go for
it I don't know how to pop into words
just say those words in that order
something to do with how far you could
see a signal from a ship like it like a
flag semaphore signal I can't give you
it it's the distance you could fire a
cannon you're in the right ballpark
you're both in the right ballpark you
weren't quite there which means at the
end of round one team vive a you are on
seven points team off-peak you're on to
round two is second thought teams you
can have the board of twelve clues in
front of you picking one at a time you
can guess what all those clues are
pointing to even ones you haven't seen
yet then you'll get more points the
earlier you get it right it's gonna be
exactly what I have on my card team
driver you are going first on the first
board pick a number
number one given away in shops plastic
bags I mean it could be little anything
pouches vouchers nope it's not so team
of peak pick a number
Oh number eight number eight wrinkle
reader a testing pot says no no it's not
so pick a number number ten number ten
found in cupboards need an answer
iron iron is not what I've got so pick a
number 11 number 11 triangular you look
stumped I'm gonna pass it over yeah yeah
no okay pick a number we're not about to
please number two could open a locked
car coat hanger is correct yes that's
absolutely right for three points yep
given away in shock brain
yeah I do Mike how you got that on the
on the kleptomania there else that was
good no wrinkle Ritter it removes
wrinkles and clothes when you hang it up
there's nothing to do with your face
it's a plot point from a film called
Mommy Dearest team off-peak first pick
on the next board is yours three number
three could contain blood the five
points good like a human I'm taking that
as an answer it's not what I've got in
the car number two has a manager
organize vampire organized you know I
heard I heard you say those words son
but they're not gonna go with that yeah
I'm gonna go with that it's it's not
right it's not like I know take my
feedback number ten monopoly player for
four points oh oh
Bank he's absolutely right yes you can
have a blood bank you have a bank
manager and a player in monopoly not the
token is the banker and see the rest of
the ones there uses red as a warning I
love as a very specific
so congratulations that is four points
to you team driver your choice number
twelve
often in paintings bums have you seen
them in Athens let me just check the
card no I don't mock you for taking a
guest there it was it was a it's a
perfectly valid guess I team up beat can
we get four fine number five mares tails
you can make paintbrushes out of horses
hair need none sir master so hair no
that's not what I've got I'm afraid
number four number four datastore cloud
is correct
neither four points very well done yep
you have a cloud datastore they're often
in paintings and mares tails are a type
of cloud thumbs are also hard to see
mackerel clouds are Auto cumulus when
you've got little red bits on them but
definitely not bombs
that's really clear last question in
this round team of peak pick a number
and the fourth in number four can cause
bleeding yes it can it's not gonna match
everything else that's their team Viper
number nine wrapped in silver need to
answer please bullets bullets is not
what I've got
so over here 12 for 12 every four hours
mercury mercury is not what I've got so
the team Viper number one number one
anti-inflammatory and ibuprofen no seven
hand that over
pick a number six number six it kills
something to go with another drug is not
antibiotics no not what I've got so
passing it back number seven Bayer
medication nope not what I've got in the
card so pick a number 11 number 11 not
for children
penicillin nope
you're gonna pass this back over for two
points number two white cocaine every
four hours that is taken um that wasn't
correct it's not correct now gonna pass
that Mike's team off-peak number 5
number 5 avoided by pregnant women it's
some kind of drug which have to get the
right one I think you can take aspirin
when you're pregnant so it's something
you can't take when you're pregnant you
need an answer
good name another drug that's not
ibuprofen paracetamol is not what I've
got so for one point big number number 8
number 8 acid
an aspirin I don't think so I mean at
this point I think it's yes you said it
on four points but never actually made
it your answer you tried paracetamol you
tried ibuprofen you tried cocaine at one
point but no it was actually aspirin you
were right really really early on sorry
but sadly that is just for one point
which means going into the final round
the scores are 15 6 you're going in with
a 9 point the final round is quick
thoughts now teams you both can start
with 90 seconds of thinking time as
before but because you have a nine point
advantage we may be five seconds extra
for each of those points you're gonna
start with two minutes four feet on your
clock team off-peak one minute thirty
I'm afraid your clock is gonna start
counting down first okay buzz when you
think you know the answer if you're
right to your opponents clock will start
if you're wrong you lose ten seconds and
your clock will keep going okay are you
ready just a courtesy to ask at this
point we're gonna start anyway which
cake has been defined by chambers
dictionary as long in shape but short in
duration let's roll no it's an eclair
ten seconds away we start again with one
minute and twelve which world leader who
died in 2011 had a hundred and twelve
different recognized spellings of his
name I would
the name doesn't translate into Latin
letters easily somebody Russian no no
the North Korean dude no they use that
another name was often written in Arabic
so somebody from the Arab world we do a
pass you might as well take a guess
nope I can't think of any it was a
Colonel Gaddafi so afraid that's ten
seconds away again thirty four point
eight on the clock
what gaming die contains the numbers 2 &
4 but not the numbers 1 3 5 & 6 I have
no idea you're gonna pass you need to do
it quickly the other fool us what no I
did it's a backgammon
w-wow okay 14.7 on the clock I will say
it can be done which 1995 comedy-drama
film had to change its lead actor 45
times 45 times comedy drama from 95
Merriam margulies provided the voice of
a dog called fly good names and named
any movie from the nineties I don't know
there look who's talking
babe they had to change the piglet for
the five times and I do not have
recorded on my card what happened to the
other 44 piglets commiserations that was
I'm afraid a complete lockout yeah oh my
god not a single question face there
between driver congratulations you are
through to the grand final team of Pete
commiserations but that's your first
loss you are not out of the tournament
yet you are gonna be in the playoff near
the end so we will see you again but you
are gonna be fighting for survival then
so very best of luck to you
commiserations this time congratulations
to you we'll see you next time on
lateral
are coming that he decides on just on to
say blood level